== README



This project demonstrates the use of JasperReport REST V2 API to run a report in a JasperServer from a Rails client.
   
To run this project, you will need a Ruby & Rails development environment installed in your machine, then

1. Download/Clone this project to your machine. For example, git clone https://github.com/metrotranscom/jasper_rails_rest_api.git
2. CD to this project folder.
3. Type bundle install. For example, ylee@YLEE-QA:/jasper_rails_rest_api$ bundle install
4. Type rake db:create. For example, ylee@YLEE-QA://jasper_rails_rest_api$ rake db:create
4. Type rake db:migrate. For example, ylee@YLEE-QA:/jasper_rails_rest_api$ rake db:migrate
5. Type rails server to bring up the application server.
6. In your browser, type http://localhost:3000 to run the application. 

Cheers and Good luck!


Something extra for the curious:


According to the JasperReports's web services guide, here are the key steps to run the reports using its REST API. In the code, this is from the function generate_report() in the file /jasper_rails_rest_api/app/controllers/reports_controller.rb

1. Encode the authentication in a http header.

# encode the report's user name and password in HTTP header for basic authentication
user_auth_str = "#{@login}|#{@organization_id}"        
auth = "Basic " + Base64::strict_encode64("#{user_auth_str}:#{@password}")

2. Send the request with its encoded authentication.

#run the report
response = RestClient.get("#{report_url}", :authorization=>auth)


